Hello everyone.
I'm in the idea in the section 15 workspace and i'm mean the challenge project.
And before I go over what the challenge is for this section I'd like to go over the account class that
has been modified slightly and this is the account class hierarchy that we're going to use for the challenge.
So I'd like to go through it in detail so you understand exactly what's going on.
It's very very similar to the account class that we've been using all along.
But I've made a couple of changes to it.
So why don't we start here with the account class you can see I've got my account header file and my
account implementation file.
But let's talk about this account class as you can see there's my class account and I've got my overloaded
insertion operator which allows me to put accounts on a stream really really easily that I've declared
these two consecrations and think of these as constants that are available only to the class or within
the class scope.
Sure we could have defined these outside of class scope.
But then what we do is we pollute the global namespace and we really don't want to do that.
And the reason we're doing that is because we're providing default parameter values in the constructor
here.
So you can see that we've got default name here as well as to false balance here.
So by using these I can do it like this and I could just change them in one place.
The other option is just to do the constructor like this.
Just that we've done before where I supply the default parameter unnamed count and the balance is zero.
OK.
So again you could do it either way.
I kind of like doing it this way because it gives me all my constants in one place.
They are within class scope and you can decide whether you want to make a private or protected or public
and you've got a lot of flexibility.
So there's my constructor.
And obviously we've got an account in this case I added the name right.
That name is a stud string a C++ string.
So in this case what an account is it's got a name and it's got a balance.
So here's my constructor.
It expects a name and a balance.
If we don't get a name we get a name to count.
We don't get a balance.
We get zero for the balance.
And at this point we've got our deposit withdraw and I've just put in a good balance method here which
could be handy to use.
I don't think I'm using them in the code but you may want to use it.
So I've got a deposit method and a withdrawal method.
Real basic functionality here right.
Simply add whatever is given to you to the balance and withdraw whatever is given to the balances to
me that we don't run into a negative balance when it's over.
So just like we've seen before.
Now let's look at the implementation for this.
So we look at accounts GPP.
So here's the count and it's going to be again very very familiar implementation I think.
So here you've got your account constructor.
Notice that it expects these two parameters and those have defaults associated with them.
So in this case this constructor fires and I'm just setting my name and my balance to whatever was passed
in real simple constructor.
Here's my deposit method it's expecting an amount you can see the amount right here.
If the amount is less than zero on returning false this is one of the little changes that I made to
these methods.
Notice that deposit and withdraw both return true false values right boolean.
So this will return true if the deposit was successful fault's otherwise.
Same here.
This would return true if the withdrawal was successful fault.
Otherwise this is a pretty rudimentary way of doing error checking because you're just returning true
false.
That could be a lot of different reasons for failure.
And we'll talk about that when we talk about exceptions and exception handling.
But for now this would serve us just fine.
So here's my deposit method.
Given an amount if the amount is less than zero I'm going to return false because that really doesn't
make sense.
I don't want to deposit negative amounts which would be kind of like withdrawals if the amount is not
less than zero then I'm simply incrementing the balance by the amount and returning troops successful
Here's my withdraw same idea I'm getting an amount to withdraw.
I'm checking to see if I subtract that from the balance if I still have the balance in which case if
I do I do the withdrawal and I return True it was successful otherwise I return false right here.
All right here's my get balance which simply returns the balance.
Notice that's a Konst method.
And then the very last function down here is my overloaded insertion operator which is a friend of this
class.
It expects a stream and it expects an account and all the displays is the account followed by the account
name.
Notice that I have access to these guys because I'm a friend so all it's displaying is he can't name
the account balance.
So hopefully that makes sense you can walk through it and study it a little bit before you start the
challenge.
And like I said I'll explain the challenge in the next video.
So now let's take a look at our savings account.
We've got two classes in this hierarchy we've got an account we've got a savings account.
So here's my savings account and notice set in a savings account is a type of account.
So that's kind of a clue as to what we're going to do.
Right right here public inheritance so it's an account.
But what it does is it adds an interest rate and you can see the interest rate right here.
It's a protected data member and the withdraw is the same as a regular account so you can see that the
withdraw isn't here right.
There's no need to override withdraw because the accounts withdraw it works just fine.
So all we want to do.
We have no specialization for that.
So I commented right here inherits the account withdraw method the deposit does specialize.
It's a little bit different.
So the amount supplied to the deposit will be incremented by the amount.
I should say here sorry about that.
I will fix that by the amount of times the interest rate divided by 100 rates of the interest rate is
five.
Then that would be point 0 5 which is the 5 percent times the amount.
And we're going to put that right back in.
OK.
That's pretty much it hit here the rest is pretty self-explanatory.
I think I've got three consecrations here.
The first one is unnamed savings account which is my default name.
Notice that it's right here if it's not supplied.
That's it.
My default balance and my default interest rate are over here and right here again you don't have to
do this here.
You can simply put them in right in here 0 0 0 0 and a named savings account right here.
This has got to be c suppose plus 11 to do this kind of thing.
And let's see what else what else do we have.
We have the constructor which expects all three of those guys as I said and I've got my deposit which
I have to override to support this kind of deposit behavior.
OK.
So one of the things that hopefully you'll notice and this is one of the ideas with inheritance is that
as you derive classes you really should have to do a lot less than the previous class did.
Right.
Which makes sense because after all what we're doing is we're specializing we're not redoing.
So let's take a look at the implementation for the savings account.
So you see a lot of code here and that's the whole idea.
Mean if you find yourself writing a lot of code in the specialization classes that you're deriving then
either it's a really complex derivation or something is not quite right.
So let's take a look at the constructor.
Here you can see the constructor it's expects a name a balance and an interest rate.
And remember a savings account is an account so I need to take care of that account.
Part of me.
So right here I'm invoking my base classes constructor and I'm passing in name and balance.
Remember that's when an account has a name and a balance.
So I'm going to let the account class take care of that.
It knows about that.
Those are not my instance variables here.
I'm only putting in the rate.
Once that's done I'll come back and I will initialize the the interest rate to whatever is passed in
right over here and that'll do it.
Notice that none of these constructors have bodies to them and said Did you have bodies to them you
can see the body right here there's no code in the body.
You could simply put out statements in there if you want to see them execute.
Also there's no destructors there's no copy constructor is just overloaded assignment operators because
we don't need any of those.
The balance is double the interest rate as a double and the name is a STD string.
They know how to take care of themselves so we don't have to worry about that.
We don't have any raw pointers here.
All right so now let's take a look at the deposit method.
Here's the deposit method you can see we expect an amount to deposit and we're going to increment that
amount by the amount itself times the interest rate divided by 100 that's what the business logic says.
Once we know the amount that we want to deposits right here then we really don't want to do that ourselves.
We want to ask our account class to do it for us.
So we're going to call the deposit method in the account class which is right here and you need to put
this piece right in front here.
Otherwise the compiler will call this method right here and you can end up with recursion forever.
And so be be real careful about that.
You to be sure that you call the account class's deposit method and we pass in the amount.
That's it.
And noticed something else here.
This returns a boolean right.
Well I'm returning whatever my base class is deposit method returns to me.
And so if it failed over there I'm just returning fail here if it worked over there I'm returning true
here.
OK so again we're leveraging on the fact that all of these deposit and withdraw methods will return
booleans.
Notice there is no withdraw method because we're inheriting our parents.
It's public in the account so it's public and me.
So I've got access to it.
And here is the overloaded insertion operator for a savings account.
I mentioned slicing before if we don't provide this and we pass a savings account into the account overloaded
insertion operator it'll slice and this piece here won't print.
It'll still print name and balance because all accounts have names and balances.
But this piece here this is what my savings account brings so this will just display savings account
the account name account balance and whatever the interest rate is in Perceptor.
Okay perfect.
So now I wrote a little bit more code just to make our lives a little easier.
And it's right in these two files right here created two files one is called Account underscore you
till that header file and then the count underscore you still implementation file.
And these are utility functions that we're going to use with these classes.
They're not part of the class.
They're simply utility functions.
Let's take a look.
Let's take a look at the header file.
Ok so I've got some simple utility helper functions for the account class and the savings account class.
You'll see a lot of duplicated code here and a lot of this duplicated code is going to go away in the
next section.
When we talk about polymorphic functions but here we're doing everything statically So we've got to
do it this way.
So take a look at this.
I've got a display function.
I remember these are regular functions.
These are not class member functions these are just plain old global C++ functions.
It's called display and it expects a vector of accounts write a bunch of accounts by ref.
Then I've got all that does is just loops through them and displays each one of them and I'll show you
the code for that in a moment.
These are just the prototypes that we're going to use in man here have got to deposit.
And all that's going to do is give me a list or a vector in this case of account objects and I'm going
to deposit this amount into all of them.
So this is going to really be nice for us to test our code.
Same thing here with withdraw.
Withdraw a thousand dollars from all of these accounts that I sent you.
So those are the ones for the account class.
These are the ones for the savings account class you can see that I've got savings accounts here and
accounts here.
Also notice that the names are the same display display deposit deposit withdraw withdraw right so we're
overloading here.
We're using what we learned a long time ago when we talked about functions we're overloading the functions
the compiler can tell them apart because of this first argument right here.
This is a vector of savings accounts.
This is a vector of accounts.
OK.
So let's take a look at some of the code for this.
Like I said it's a bit long and repetitive but hopefully you'll get the idea.
Here's the display.
So if you send me a vector of account objects by reference.
And again this is Cotts because I don't want to modify it I'm just displaying it then I'm just going
to print this line accounts and then I'm going to loop and say use arr. base for loop and for every
account in that vector.
I'm just printing it out just like that.
That's using the overloaded insertion operator and that'll display them real nicely.
Here's the deposit.
In this case I don't want this to be Konst as we did over there.
Up up top here because I do want to modify it and it's as simple as loop through the accounts for each
account deposit that amount into it.
If it came back true that means the deposit was successful and I just display deposited however much
amount to whatever account if it fails for whatever reason.
I'm just saying failed deposit to this this account and last method here is the withdraw.
Same idea.
I want to withdraw this amount from all of the objects in that vector.
So all I'm going to do is loop through I'm going to call the withdraw method on each account and if
it comes back true then the withdrawal is successful and I'll display.
I withdrew $1000 from each count.
If it fails I'll say that as well.
OK so you can see it's pretty standard it's nothing we haven't done before.
The only thing that's different maybe is the organization that we're doing.
So I've got those three functions for account and then I've basically got the same three functions for
savings account.
You can see savings accounts right there.
So it's really pretty much the same the only difference is that this deposit and this withdrawal right
here will use these specialized versions of the deposit and withdraw from the savings account.
So that's it.
Let's look at the main.
Here's my main and not that long but we're got a lot going on here though.
Notice that I'm including account utility H right because I need those utility functions.
And let me scroll up just a little bit and see what's happening here with the count.
I'm creating a vector we've used the vector before we'll learn more about the vector in the list and
other things when we talk about the C++ standard template library.
But we've used vectors so we should be pretty familiar with it.
So I'm creating a vector here called accounts a vector of account objects and I'm just simply creating
an empty account.
Right that's going to be an unnamed account with a zero balance.
I'm creating another account called Larry with zero Moe with 22000 and Curly with 5000.
And I'm pushing those accounts at the back of that vector.
So all we're doing there is creating a vector and creating four account objects and putting putting
them in the vector.
Once we're done with that we're going to use those utility functions.
You can see this is where it comes in real handy.
Display the accounts deposit 1000 into each one of those accounts and withdraw 2000 from each one of
those accounts.
So that's going to deal with accounts and then we're going to do the exact same thing with savings accounts.
So in this case I've got a vector of savings account objects and I'll call it safe accounts and the
same idea I'm going to create a savings account object that's empty.
I'm going to create a savings account object that Superman and another one for a Batman with 2000.
And finally one woman with five thousand and five percent interest these get the default values for
both the balance and the interest.
These guys right here and this guy gets all three default values right.
It's going to be an unnamed savings account with no balance and no interest rate.
And then we'll do the same thing with this saving display deposit and withdraw.
You can see that we've got the same code here and here but different functions will be called because
of the overloading.
So let's run this and you'll see the output and hopefully you'll see why I did those utility use those
utility function because it's just going to make our lives much much easier and make our main very clear.
So let me run this build and run.
And here you can see the output.
I'll scroll to the top and right here I'm displaying the accounts and this is what you're seeing here
on the right side account unnamed account.
That's from this guy right here.
Then we see Larry with no balance then we see mode with 2000 and then we see with 5000.
Then I call the deposit function.
And what that's going to do is it's going to loop through all these four accounts and deposit a thousand
dollars into each one.
So you can see here I'm deposited all of the returns successful so I deposited a thousand to the unnamed
account and its balance is now a thousand.
I deposited a thousand to Larry he's a thousand Moe is now three thousand and Curley's six thousand.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to withdraw $2000 from each one of those accounts as I do
through them and I'll scroll this up just a little bit.
And you can see that right now I'm withdrawing $2000 from the unnamed account but the named account
only had a $1000 balance.
So it failed and the balance is still frozen.
I tried to withdraw $2000 from Larry.
Well Larry only has a thousand so that failed as well.
And I tried to withdraw 2000 from Moe and Curly.
They have enough balance so Mo is now a thousand Kerley is now 4000.
And now the savings.
Let me scroll up just a little bit so you can see it better here.
Now we're doing the same thing but with savings accounts.
So I'm creating four savings account objects in this case the empty one that Superman with zero zero
Batman with 2000 and 0 and Wonderwoman with 5 0 0 0 0 and 5 percent interest and then displaying them
you can see them being displayed here on display the unnamed savings account 0 0 Superman 0 0 Batman
2000 0 and then Wonderwoman 5 0 0 0 0 0 and 5 percent interest.
Then I'm calling the deposit method for each one of those guys again in the loop using the utility function
and what's happening is I'm going to deposit a thousand dollars into each one of those counts.
And notice that I'm depositing a thousand into unnamed writes and now it's kind of thousand balance
under Pazin a thousand into Superman.
So it has a thousand Husni a thousand into Batman so it was 2000 here now it's 3000 notice.
It had a zero percent interest rate so we didn't get that extra little bonus that we want but in this
case I'm depositing a thousand to wonder woman and wonder woman who's got a 5 percent interest rate
so you can see that that indeed took that into account.
So it's really using that specialized deposit method.
And then what we're doing is we withdraw some $2000 from each one of those accounts.
In this case it's going to fail with the unnamed account because the unnamed account only has a balance
of a thousand.
It's going to fail again with the Superman account because it also only has a balance of a thousand.
But with Batman and Wonder Woman it'll be just fine because Batman at 3000 and wonder woman had 60 50.
So you can see that now we've got a thousand Batman and 40 50 in wonder woman.
Hopefully that makes sense and that gives you an idea of these classes.
Study these look at them play with them.
Run through the debugger throw some statements in there and what do you think you know what we're going
to do we're going to add a few new classes to this hierarchy and I'll talk about that in the next video
when I talk about the actual challenge.